Let's talk a little bit about ethics. Now
I'm an engineer, I'm not an ethicist but to
me ethics has got some notion of right and
wrong and of course, right and wrong are not
necessarily always clear cut, sometimes the
answer is perhaps; it does depend. I also
think ethics is mixed up perhaps with ideas
of good and evil. It's a perhaps a more extreme
versions of right and wrong. But I think there
are also some very human centric aspects to
ethics. I think it's about respect to individuals;
it's about justice to individuals. And I think
there's perhaps also an element of responsibility
in there. What are the responsibilities of
individuals to society and what's the responsibility
of society to its individuals?
In a little while, I'm going to have a conversation
with a friend of mine who knows much much
more about ethics than I do and we're going
to have some conversations around ethics and
in particular ethics as it applies to robotics.
So what are some of the issues where ethics
and robotics intersect? Well perhaps one is
in the area of warfare. An interesting statistic
is that perhaps one in fifty U.S war fighters
is now a robot. Now what are the ethical considerations around machines inflicting harm on soldiers,
human soldiers belonging to enemy forces?
Another issue is privacy and it's been a lot
of controversy lately about how robots in
particular drones are infringing on people's
privacy. So imagine how you would feel if
a drone came up to your window and peered
inside your house. Another scenario is much
in the news lately and that's self driving
cars, perhaps you might think of them as robotic
cars, and the issue is that if one of these
cars has an accident and perhaps it injures
or kills the driver of the robotic car or
a bystander on the road or the driver of another
car; whose fault is that? That's a pretty
complex question.
Another thing that we might like to think
about is robots caring for young people and
also for elderly people. In many countries,
with an aging population there is a need for
people to help the elderly people and if there
are not enough working age people to do that,
then is that a job that could be or should
be fulfilled by robots?
The same thing perhaps happens at the other
end of the spectrum. Is it proper or appropriate
to have the youngest members of our society,
young children, raised and nurtured by machines
rather than by human beings?
Another issue that gets talked about a lot
with robots is about jobs. Imagine a future
when nobody has to work because robots are
doing all the work, then how do we get the
money that we need to buy food and put a roof
over our head?
Perhaps we could radically restructure society
so all of those things come to us for free
and robots do all the work. Even if we could
build that Utopia, what would we do if we
didn't need to work? And I love this quote
by Voltaire; he says that work spares us from
three evils; boredom, vice and need. So perhaps
robots could provide everything that we need
but I'm sure human beings would get bored
if they didn't have to work. I know that I
would.
We talked about Isaac Asimov in the very first
lecture in this course. In particular his
three laws of robotics, which were introduced
in the short story called 'Run around' in
1941. These three rules in code a set of robot
behaviours and it seems, certainly at face
value, that if robots obeyed these three laws
then the chance for robots and humans to get
into any kind of strife or disagreement would
be very low.